Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we are going to begin working on letting users create posts.
So up until this point, almost everything we've worked on within this new complex app has been related
to a user.
Right.
And that's why we've had our user controller and our user model.
Well, in this lesson, we're going to begin work on letting logged in users create a post or article,
meaning we will have a post controller and a post model.
It should be fun to change gears and work on a new feature.
I think this is when our application is really going to start feeling alive.
All right.
Now, without further ado, let's get started.
First, let's ask ourselves, what do we want to happen if a logged in user clicks on this green create
post button?
Well, we would just want to take them to a new neutral that renders a new HTML template to be more
specific, this template.
So there's a field for a post or article title.
Sky is blue and there's a place for body content and then obviously a blue save or submit button.
Now remember, this is not a course about HTML, so we're not going to type out this template.
Instead, we're just going to copy and paste.
So like before you can always jump over to this GitHub repository.
You should be able to find a link to this within the resources for this lesson and within the same complex
app HTML templates folder.
Right now we are interested in the template named Create Dash Post Dot HTML.
So either open that up on your hard drive or just click on it here from the GitHub web page and then
you can click on this raw button.
Cool, and then just select all of this raw HTML, so control or command a copy it into your clipboard.
And now let's go create a new SJS file in our views folder in our text editor within our Views folder.
We just want to create a new template with that code.
So I'm going to.
Right.
Click on Views, click new file.
Why don't we name this template, create dash post dot SJS.
OK, and then in that new file, just paste in your clipboard.
Go ahead and save that.
OK, now that we've created that template, our next step is to adjust this green create post button
to point towards a specific route or you órale.
If we user clicks on this, why don't we send them to a Eurail of slash create dash post?
Let me show you how we can set that up.
So back in our editor within our Views folder, let's open up home dash dashboard, SJS and around line
number twenty one, you'll see an opening element.
And we're interested in its HSF attribute.
Right.
So we can see this is that create post link.
So for atrip instead of the placeholder hash tag, let's get rid of that and just say slash create dash
post.
Let's go ahead and save this template.
OK, let's just go set up a route for this matching you URL within our router file and our project folder.
Jump into rutabagas and below this router, top post slash log outline.
Let's add a comment to ourselves to stay organized and say post related routes.
So these are all of our user related routes.
You could add a comment here if you wanted to.
User related routes, OK, and under post related routes, let's say router not get for the route.
Let's say slash, create dash post for the second arguments of comma.
We'd want to look inside our post controller.
We haven't actually created a post controller yet, but you can imagine that in just a minute or two.
We will.
And when we do, you can imagine that maybe we'll create a function.
So look inside that and let's imagine we're going to call the function view create screen.
Obviously, at this moment, this function doesn't exist yet, but we can set that up very shortly before
we save our router file.
Let's be sure up at the top to require in our post controller file.
So right below this line where we required in our user controller, let's say const post controller
and just set that to equal and then require in a file path.
So dot slash and then look inside the controllers folder and the file will be named post controller.
All right.
Now let's go ahead and save this file and then jump in to that post controller file.
So within our controllers folder, you might remember that I already had us create three different controller
files.
So far we've only actually worked on user controller, but you likely have these empty follow and post
controller files, just like I do.
If you don't just go ahead and create a post controller JS file right now.
So I'm going to jump in to post controller within post controller.
Let's just start exporting functions that the router can call.
So we just say exports dot and then we can make up a function name.
Let's choose that exact matching name that we made up a minute ago.
Remember, it was view create screen and let's just set that to equal a function within these function
parentheses.
Let's be sure to include request and response and then within the body of the function, let's just
say response stop render in the name of the template is create Dasch Post.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it all out.
Back in the browser.
Be sure to refresh so that the Green Create Post Button has its updated RF value.
So if I refresh and then click on Create Post, awesome.
There is that new template.
Now before we move on any further, we'd want to make sure that you can only visit this route if you're
logged in.
Right.
You should need to have a user account in order to create posts.
We don't want just random guest visitors creating posts, only legitimate user accounts.
So if you're not logged in and you visit this Yooralla route, you should be redirected to the home
page with a red flag error message that says you must be logged in to perform that at.
Now, we could add that logic into our controller function here, but I think you can imagine that that's
going to be a pretty common thing that we want to do, right.
Restrict a route so that only logged in users can access it.
So instead of duplicating the logic that enforces that in maybe 20 or 30 different controller functions,
why don't we instead just create one single reusable function within our user controller and we can
name it must be logged in actually before we even create said function, let me first show you how we're
going to leverage it.
So right now, I want you to jump back into our router JS file and for any route that we would want
to protect.
So the only logged in users can access it.
Let's take this create post route for an example.
In between the first and second arguments, we can just add another argument so we could just say user
controller and then imagine we're going to create a function named must be logged in and be sure to
include a comma.
So the idea is that Express lets us include multiple functions that we want to run in response for a
given route.
So now within this function, we can just check to see if there is a user object within the current
session.
If there's not, we can just redirect them to the home page with an error message.
But if there is a user object on the session, we can just say next where we tell Express to run the
next function for that route.
So then Express actually would call this, but effectively only logged in users would ever actually
get there.
Let me show you how we can set this up.
So we just made up this name must be logged in.
So let's go create a function with that matching name within our user controller.
So in the controllers folder, jump into user controller Dot J.S. and right up at the top here, maybe
right before the log in function, let's create a new line and just say exports dot must be logged in
equals a function within our parentheses for this function.
Let's not only include request and response, but also a third parameter and let's name it next.
OK, now within the body of this function, let's begin with an if statement.
Let's say, if so, parentheses curly brackets right after the closing curly brackets for the if.
Let's also include an else block, OK, for our if condition within these parentheses, let's say if
request session user write, because there's only ever going to be a user object within the session
data if a user has successfully logged in.
OK, if that's the case, then within the if block we would just want to call next write, tell, express
to call the next function for this route now within the else block.
This means that a visitor is not logged in.
So let's just create a flash error message.
So let's say request dot flash for the first argument.
Let's say we want to add a message on to a collection or array named errors.
For the second argument, we just include the message.
So let's say you must be logged in to perform that action.
OK, right below this request line and still within the else block, we would now just want to redirect
to the home page you are out.
However, before we do that, let's first manually save our session data so we can be sure that it actually
completes before we redirect.
So request session, save within those save parentheses include a function.
And within this function is where we would actually redirect.
So response dot redirect to the base or home page you are l.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
Oops.
I actually forgot to save my router, not just fine.
I'll be sure to save that as well.
OK, and then back in the browser in this window where I am logged in, if I refresh I can still visit
the create dash post.
You are however in an incognito window or in this case Mozilla Firefox where I am not logged in if I
try to visit, slash, create dash post.
You see, it kicks me right back to the home page, you must be logged in to perform that action.
Perfect.
So that's a reuseable function that we can use to protect a lot of our future routes as well.
Now, let's move on to another task you might have noticed in the window where I'm logged in that in
the top right header menu, when we are visiting the create post route, this is using fake or hard
coded data, meaning it's not using that dynamic avatar image source that we set up, nor would the
logout form actually point anywhere.
This is because when we made those header adjustments, we did so within our home dash dashboard template.
But this is an entirely different template.
This is Create Postgrads.
Now, before we update or fix our Create Post SJS template, let's first make sure that we pass into
it the relevant session data to power the unique Granovetter.
Let's jump in to our post controller file.
And when we render that create post template, let's just give this a second argument.
Let's send it to an object.
And this is the data that gets passed into the template.
Let's give it a property named username and let's pull that from request session user dot username.
And let's also give it a property named Avatar and set that to request session dot user dot avatar.
OK, let's go ahead and save that.
Then let's jump in to our new create post mortgagers template.
So within our Views folder, jump back in to create dash post.
Now we could dig through this template and make the same updates to its header that we've already made
to home dash dashboard SJS.
But that line of thinking would result in a lot of duplication very quickly.
What I mean is just about every template in our app is going to need this same uniform header.
So instead of duplicating it and spelling it out in every file, let's just create one single reusable
template file that's just for the header.
And then all of the other templates can pull in that file.
Let me show you how we can set this up.
So within our text editor, within our views folder, let's actually create a sub folder inside the
views folder.
I'm going to right.
Click on the views folder and choose a new folder.
And let's name this new subfolder includes technically we can name it anything, but this is a common
name to use.
All right.
Now, inside the includes folder, let's create a new file.
And let's name it header SJS.
Now the question becomes, what would we want to live in this file?
Well, we've already started working on the header back on our home page template.
Right.
This pulls in the gravitas.
It's got a working sign out form.
So let's just jump into this home dashboard template and copy that header portion into our clipboard.
So in our views folder, let's jump into home dash dashboard.
Ejaz, begin selecting from line number one all the way down until about line number twenty seven or
wherever you see this closing header tag.
So include that closing header tag and then let's cut that into our clipboard in its place.
We can just write a little note to ourselves and say include header file here.
We will circle back to this in about ten seconds, but let's jump back into that empty new header file
that lives in the includes folder and just paste in our clipboard.
OK, go ahead and save that.
And now back in home Dash Dashboard, let's get rid of this note to ourselves.
Let's also delete this comment that says header ends here.
And now all we need to do to pull in that reusable header include file is say less than percentage,
and then to close this tag, it's percentage greater than in the middle.
Let's just say include this is an exact function we can leverage and then we just give it a path towards
that file.
So look within the includes folder and that files name is header.
And because this isn't just JavaScript that we want to execute, but instead we want to actually output
or print this, we could include an equal sign here, but the equal sign is going to escape this value.
And since this is pulling from a template that we trust, obviously we created it.
We don't need to escape it once again.
So instead of an equal sign here, let's just include a dash or subtraction sign.
OK, now let's also go do the same thing in our new create post template.
Let's delete the existing header and then just use this include command.
So to save some typing, let's copy this.
Include Command in your clipboard, copy and then let's jump into our newly created create dash post
Ejaz and let's start deleting.
So begin selecting from line number one and delete all the way down until line number twenty eight where
it says header ends here, delete that and then in its place just paste in your clipboard.
Right.
We just want to include in the header file.
Let's go ahead and save that.
Oops.
Looks like I forgot to save my home dash dashboard file.
Save that too and let's test it out.
So if I refresh the homepage, it's still pulling in my real avatar.
And now if I visit the create post screen.
Awesome, it's using that uniform new header file.
Now another area in our code where we can remove duplication is when we pass.